ACID transactions

    Atomicity: All the operations in a transaction work or none of them work.

    Consistency: All transactions change the database state properly.

    Isolation:  Transactions won't interfere with each other.
                It's a property that defines how/when the changes made by one operation
                become visible to others.

                There are three phenomena which are prohibited at different isolation levels:

                1. Dirty reads: A transaction reads data written by another unfinished 
                    transaction running at the same time.
                
                2. Nonrepeatable reads: When during the course of a transaction, a row is retrieved
                    twice and the values within the row differ between reads.
                
                3. Phantom reads: Occurs when in the course of a transaction, new rows are added or
                    removed by another transaction to the records being read.


                SQL Isolation Levels:

                1. Read uncommitted: Lowest isolation level. Allows dirty reads, non repeatable reads 
                    and phantom reads. Can see uncommitted changes made by other transactions.
                
                2. Read committed: Allows non repeatable reads and phantom reads. Guarantees that any
                    data read is committed at the moment it is read. But the next read in transaction
                    might find different data.

                3. Repeatable reads: Allows phantom reads. New rows could be added or rows removed during
                    your transaction between different reads.

                4. Serializable: Highest isolation level. All types of read errors are avoided during your 
                    transaction.

    Durability: The changes or results won't be lost if there is a system failure


By default every single statement has a transaction around it.
If you want to bundle more than one statement you will need to use transaction control
statements.