10. SWF Simple Workflow Service

It's a web service that makes it easy to coordinate work across distributed application components. Amazon SWF enables applications for a range of use cases, including media 
processing, web application back ends, business process workflows and analytics pipelines, to be designed as a coordination of tasks. Tasks represent invocations of various
processing steps in an application which can be performed by executable code, web service calls, human actions, and scripts.

SWF Workers

	Workers are programs that interact with Amazon SWF to get tasks, process received tasks and returns the results.
	
SWF Decider

	The decider is a program that controls the coordination of tasks ie their ordering, concurrency and scheduling according to the application logic.
	
The workers and the decider can run on cloud infrastructure, such as Amazon EC2, or on machines behind firewalls. Amazon SWF brokers the interactions
between workers and the decider. It allows the decider to get consistent views into the progress of tasks and to initiate new tasks in an ongoing manner.
At the same time, Amazon SWF stores tasks, assigns them to workers when they are ready, and monitors their progress. It ensures that a task is assigned
only once and is never duplicated. Since Amazon SWF maintains the application's state durably, workers and deciders do not have to keep track of execution 
state. They can run independenly and scale quickly.

Difference between SQS ans SWF

With SWF a task is assigned only once and it is never duplicated. With SQS you got your message visibility timeout a task can be assigned multiple times.

SWF Domains

	Your workflow and activity types and the workflow execution it self are all scoped to a domain. Domains isolate a set of types, executions and tasks list
	from others within the same account. You can register a domain by using the AWS Management Console or by using the RegisterDomain action in the Amazon SWF API.
	
	The parameters are specified in JavaScript Object Notation (JSON format).
	
	https://swf.us-east-1.amazonaws.com
		RegisterDomain
		{
			"name":"867530901",
			"description":"music",
			"workflowExecutionRetentionPeriodInDays":"60"
		}
		
How long for a workflow

	Maximum Workflow can be 1 year and the value is always measured in seconds.
	
SWF vs SQS

	- SWF presents a task oriented API, whereas SQS offers a message-oriented API.
	- SWF ensures that a task is assigned only once and is never duplicated. With SQS, you need to handle duplicated messages and may also need to ensure that
		a message is processed only once.
	- SWF keeps track of all the tasks and events in an application. With SQS you need to implement your own application level tracking especially
		if your application uses multiple queues.
		