4. S3

It's a service that provides secure, durable and highly-scalabe object storage.

- Safe place to store files
- It is object based storage
- The data is spread across multiple devices and facilities
- Files can be from 1 byte to 5TB
- There is unlimited storage
- Files are stored in buckets
- S3 is a universal namespace. Name must be unique globally. Example: https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/acloudguru
- Read after Write consistency for PUTS of new Objects. (When you upload a new file it will be inmmediately available for reading)
- Eventual consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES (can take some time to propagate)
- Simple Key value store
	key: simply the name of the object
	value: simply the data and is made up of a sequence of bytes
	version id: important for versioning
	metadata: data about the data that you are storing
	subresources.
	access control lists.
- 99.99% availability for the S3 platform
- 99.999999999% durability for S3 (11 x 9's)
- Tiered Storage Available
- LifeCycle Management
- Versioning
- Encryption
- Secure your data using Access Control Lists and Bucket Policies


Storage Tiers/Classes

	S3 - 99.99% availability, 99.999999999% durability, stored redundantly across multiple devices in multiple facilities
	and it is designed to sustain the loss of 2 facilities (Availability Zones) concurrently.

	S3 - IA (Infrequently Accessed) For data that is accessed less frequently, but requires rapid access when needed. Lower
	fee than S3, but you are charged a retrieval fee.

	Reduced Redondancy Storage - Designed to provide 99.99% durability and 99.99% availability of objects over a given year.
	Perfect for data you can afford to lose or afford the risk of losing

	Glacier - Very cheap but used for archival only. It takes 3 - 5 hours to restore from Glacier.

S3 Charges

	Storage
	Requests
	Data Transfer Pricing
	
S3 Versioning

	Stores all versions of an object (including all writes and even if you delete an object)
	Great backup tool
	Once enabled, Versioning can't be disabled only suspended.
	Integrates with LifeCycle rules
	Versioning's MFA Delete capability, which uses multi-factor authentication, can be used to provide an additional layer of security.
	Cross Region Replication requires versioning enabled on the source bucket.
	Every file has its own version id so it takes storage space.
	
Lifecycle Management

	Can be used in conjunction with versioning
	Can be applied to current versions and previous versions
	Following actions can now be done
		Transition to the Standard - Infrequent Access Storage Class (128 kb and 30 days after the creation date)
		Archive to the Glacier Storage Class (30 days after IA if relevant)
		Permanently delete
		
CloudFront

	Amazon CloudFront can be used to deliver your entire website, including dynamic, static, streaming, and interactive content using
	a global network of edge locations. Requests for your content are automatically routed to the nearest edge location, so content
	is delivered with the best possible performance. Objects are cached for the life of the TTL (Time To Live). You can clear cached
	objects, but you will be charged.
	
	Terminology
	
		CDN: Content Delivery Network is a system of distributed servers that deliver webpages and other web content to a user based on the
		geographic locations of the user, the origin of the webpage and a content delivery server.
	
		Edge location: This is the location where content will be cached. This is separate to an AWS Region/AZ. They are not just Read only, 
		you can write to them too.
	
		Origin: This is the origin of all the files that the CDN will distribute. This can be either an S3 bucket, an EC2 instance, an Elastic
		Load Balancer or Route53. An origin could be a non AWS server.
	
		Distribution: This is the name given to the CDN which consists of a collection of Edge Locations.
	
		Web Distribution: Typically used for websites.
		
		RTMP: Used for Media Streaming.

S3 Security and Encryption

	Securing your buckets
		
		By default all newly created buckets are private.
		You can setup access control to your buckets using
			Bucket policies
			Access Control Lists
		S3 buckets can be configured to create access logs which log all requests made to the S3 bucket. This can be done to another bucket.
	
	Encryption
	
		In Transit
			SSL/TLS
			
		At REST
			Server side encryption
				S3 Managed Keys SSE-S3
				AWS Key Management Service Management Keys - SSE-KMS
				Service side encryption with customer provided keys - SSE-C
		
		Client side encryption

Storage Gateway

	AWS Storage Gateway is a service that connects an on-premises software appliance with cloud based storage to provide
	seamless and secure integration between an organization's on premises IT environment and AWS's storage infrastructure.
	The service enables you to securely store data to the AWS cloud for scalable and cost effective storage.
	
	AWS Storage Gateway's software appliance is available for download as a virtual machine image that you install on a host
	in your datacenter. Storage Gateway supports either VMWare ESXi or Microsoft Hyper-V.
	
	Once you have installed your gateway and associated it with your AWS account through the activation process, you can use
	the AWS Management Console to create the storage gateway option that is right for you.
	
	
	Types:
	
		Gateway Stored Volumes: You keep your entire data set on site. Storage Gateway then backs this data up asynchronously
		to Amazon S3. It provides durable and inexpensive off-site backups that you can recover locally or from Amazon EC2.
			
		Gateway Cached Volumes: Only your most frequently accessed data is store locally. Your entire data set is stored in S3. 
		You do not have to go out and buy large SAN arrays for your office/data center, so you can get significant cost savings.
		If you lose internet connectivity however, you will not be able to access all of your data.
		
		Gateway Virtual Tape Library (VTL): You can have a limitless collection of virtual tapes. Each virtual tape can be stored
		in a Virtual Tape Library backed by Amazon S3 or a Virtual Tape Shelf backed by Amazon Glacier. The Virtual Tape Library
		exposes an industry standard iSCSI interface which provides your backup application with on-line access to the virtual
		tapes. Supported by NetBackup, Backup Exec, Veam etc.
		
Import / Export Disk

	Accelerates moving large amounts of data into and out of the AWS cloud using portable storaga devices for transport.
	AWS Import / Export Disk transfers your data directly onto and off of storage devices using Amazon's high-speed
	internal network and bypassing the internet.

Snowball
	
	Petabyte-scale data transport solution that uses secure appliances to transfer large amounts of data into and out
	of AWS. Using Snowball addresses common challenges with large-scale data transfers including high network costs,
	long transfer times, and security concerns. Transferring data with Snowball is simple, fast, secure, and can be as 
	little as one-fifth the cost of high speed internet.
	
	50TB per snowball currently. Snowball uses multiple layers of security designed to protect your data including
	tamper-resistant enclosures, 256 bit encryption, and an industry standard Trusted Platform Module (TPM) designed 
	to ensure both security and full chain-of-custody of your data. Once the data transfer job has been processed and
	verified, AWS performs a software erasure of the Snowball appliance.
	
	
Snowball vs Import/Export Disk
		
	Snowball will provide a faster, simpler, and more cost-effective experience for most use cases when compared to
	AWS Import/Export Disk.
	
	With Snowball you do not need to purchase any hardware or write any code to transfer your data. Each Snowball appliance
	can transfer up to 50TB of data and multiple appliances can be used in parallel for larger workloads.

Exam Tips:

	Import/Export Disk
	
		Import to EBS
		Import to S3
		Import to Glacier
		Export from S3
		
	Import/Export Snowball
	
		Import to S3
		Export to S3
		

S3 Transfer Acceleration

	It utilises the CloudFront Edge Network to accelerate your uploads to S3. Instead of uploading directly to your
	S3 bucket, you can use a distinct URL to upload directly to an Edge Location which will then transfer that file
	to S3. You will get a distinct URL to upload to;
	
	Example:
	
		acloudguru.s3-accelerate.amazonaws.com
		
		
		
Quiz

1. S3 has what consistency model for PUTS of new objects
Read After Write Consistency

2. What is AWS Storage Gateway?
It's an on-premise virtual appliance that can be used to cache S3 locally at a customers site.

3. One of your users is trying to upload a 7.5GB file to S3 however they keep getting the following error message - 
"Your proposed upload exceeds the maximum allowed object size.". What is a possible solution for this?

Design your application to use the multi-part upload API for all objects

4. What does RRS stand for when talking about S3?
Reduced Redundancy Storage

5. You have been asked by your company to create an S3 bucket with the name "acloudguru1234" in the EU West region. What would be the URL for this bucket?
https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/acloudguru1234

6. What is Amazon Glacier?
An AWS service designed for long term data archival.

7. What does S3 stand for?
Simple Storage Service

8. You are a solutions architect who works with a large digital media company. The company has decided that they want to operate within the Japanese 
region and they need a bucket called "testbucket" set up immediately to test their web application on. You log in to the AWS console and try to create 
this bucket in the Japanese region however you are told that the bucket name is already taken. What should you do to resolve this?


Bucketnames are global, not regional. This is a popular bucket name and is already taken. You should choose another bucket name.

9. What is the availability on RRS?
99.99%

10. What is the durability on RRS?
99.99%

11. What is the durability on S3?
99.999999999%

12. What is the availability on S3?
99.99%

13. What is the minimum file size that I can store on S3?
1 byte

14. What is the minimum file size that I can store on S3?
False

15. S3 has eventual consistency for which HTTP Methods?
overwrite PUTS and DELETES

16. You work for a busy digital marketing company who currently store their data on premise. They are looking to migrate to AWS S3 and to store
their data in buckets. Each bucket will be named after their individual customers, followed by a random series of letters and numbers. 
Once written to S3 the data is rarely changed, as it has already been sent to the end customer for them to use as they see fit. 
However on some occassions, customers may need certain files updated quickly, and this may be for work that has been done months or even years ago. 
You would need to be able to access this data immediately to make changes in that case, but you must also keep your storage costs extremely low. 
The data is not easily reproducible if lost. Which S3 storage class should you choose to minimise costs and to maximise retrieval times?

S3 - IA

17. You need to use an Object based storage solution to store your critical, non replaceable data in a cost effective way. This data will be frequently 
updated and will need some form of version control enabled on it. Which S3 storage solution should you use?

S3

18. You work for a health insurance company who collects large amounts of documents regarding patients health records. 
This data will be used usually only once when assessing a customer and will then need to be securely stored for a period of 7 years. 
In some rare cases you may need to retrieve this data within 24 hours of a claim being lodged. 
Which storage solution would best suit this scenario? You need to keep your costs as low as possible.

Glacier

19. You run a meme creation website that frequently generates meme images. The original images are stored in S3 and the meta data about the memes are stored 
in DynamoDB. You need to store the memes themselves in a low cost storage solution. If an object is lost, you have created a Lambda function that 
will automatically recreate this meme using the original file in S3 and the metadata in Dynamodb. 
Which storage solution should you consider to store this non-critical, easily reproducible data on in the most cost effective solution as possible?

S3 - RRS

20. You run a popular photo sharing website that is based off S3. You generate revenue from your website via paid for adverts, however you have discovered 
that other websites are linking directly to the images on your site, and not to the HTML pages that serve the content. This means that people 
are not seeing your adverts and every time a request is made to S3 to serve an image it is costing your business money. How could you resolve this issue?


Remove the ability for images to be served publicly to the site and then used signed URL's with expiry dates.