Which of these are advantages of Web Services?
	
	Interoperability
	Loose Coupling
	Extensibility

The two java standards to implement SOAP and REST web services are?

	JAX-WS AND JAX-RS

The two popular web service types are ?

	SOAP and REST
	
SOA and Web Services one and the same?

	False
	
Which of these are the benefits of SOA?

	Flexibility and Scalability
	Adaptability and Loose Coupling
	Platform Independence
	
Which of these is not a XML Wellformedness rule?

	Every XML should have a schema file (It is not mandatory for an XML to have a schema file)
	
XML Schema is a XML Document?

	True

Which of the following in java language is similar to a XML Schema file?

	Class - We can create multiple xml documents that comply to a schema. Similarly we can create multiple objects or instances of a class.
	
The two types that can be created from inbuilt data types in XML schema are ?

	Simple and Complex
	
If a XML follows a schema it is called what xml.

	Valid
	
An XML can have only elements from a single namespace?

	False

Instead of using the entire namespace url to refer to a xml element we can use a ?

	Prefix
	
What is the use of a namespace?

	Allows usage of elements from different schemas in a single xml document
	
What is the root element of a schema file?

	xsd:schema
	
Which element in XML Schema can be used to restrict values?

	xsd:restriction
	
Which of the following ensures the order in which the xml elements should occur?

	xsd:sequence
	
Which two schema attributes can be used to control the number of XML element occurrences?

	minOccurs and maxOccurs
	
While using SOAP web services what kind of data is sent over HTTP Protocol?

	XML

The two types of applications or components in the web services and SOA are ?

	provider and consumer
	
The power of XML comes from its meta-data and ?

	data
	
SOAP web services request and response messages have some overhead?

	True

Which two components enable platform in-dependency?

	HTTP and XML
	
We should use SOAP web services when there is no requirement to define a formal contract between the web service provider and client?

	False
	
Web Service Standards address which of the following?

	Non Functional Requirements
	
Which organization maintains the SOAP Standard?

	W3C
	
Which SOAP Element will have the request and response message payload?
	
	Body
	
Which element can be used to communicate errors?

	Fault
	
SOAP header is used to send meta information?

	True
	
The current version of SOAP is ?

	1.2
	
Which WSDL Element connects the abstract and concrete sections of a WSDL?

	Porttype
	
The WSDL element that wraps all the operations is.

	porttype
	
Which element in the WSDL is equivalent to method parameters in programming?

	messages
	
While working on a legacy application Top Down Design should be used?

	False
	
What is the first step while using Top Down Approach?

	Create a WSDL file
	
Top Down Design is also known as design?

	wsdlfirst
	
The Specification in the JAX-WS is for developers.

	False

Which JAX-WS Annotation can be used to control the name of the web services request parameters in the wsdl/soap request?

	@WebParam
	
Who Owns and Updates the JAX-WS API?

	Oracle
	
Using JAXB we can

	
	Bind java object to xml
	Bind xml to java objects
	Generate java stubs from xml schemagen
	
JAXB is easy to use than directly working with XML through DOM or SAX parsing

	True

Which component or tool in JAXB can generate java files from a XML schema

	xjc
	
Starting which version of java are xjc and schemagen are included with JDK

	1.6
	
What is the extension of the file where we define the schema bindings?

	.xjb
	
The process of converting java objects in to XML is called

	Marshalling
	
The entry point in to the JAXB Runtime API is

	JAXBContext

Which of the following standards does CXF Implement?

	JAX-WS
	
Which component is responsible for dispatching the web service request to the web service endpoint class?

	SOAP Engine
	
One of the ways to configure the Web Service Endpoint using CXF is through Code?

	True
	
Which CXF plugin can be used to generate the java stubs?

	cxf-codegen-plugin
	
The code-gen plugin marks the generated classes with which API annotations?

	JAXB & JAX-WS
	
Which element cxf-servlet.xml can be used to define the web service endpoints?

	jaxws:endpoint
	
We can use the same generated stubs to create a web services provider and consumer?

	True

What mechanism is used to discover the client provider at runtime?

	Service provider mechanism

The first step in Bottom Up Web Service Implementation is to create a WSDL file

	False
	
When is it recommended to use code first web services?

	Working with a legacy application
	
Which WS Standard can be used for asynchronous communication?

	WS-Addressing
	
Which standard in WS-Security can be used for Single Sign On?

	SAML

Which WS-Standard can be used for exchanging files?

	MTOM
	
Apache CXF allow us to configure most of the web services standards out of the box?

	True
	
WS-Addressing allows ?

	Asynchronous Communication
	
Which part of the soap message contains the User Name Token Profile XML elements?

	SOAP Header
	
The first step to configure User Name Token Profile Authentication is?

	Creating a callback handler class
	
MTOM stands for Message Transmission and Optimization Mechanism.

	True
	
Which JAX-WS handlers should be used to access the SOAP headers?
	
	soap handler

The logical handlers can be used to access which part of the SOAP message?

	payload

REST is a set of principles.

	True
	
Statelessness means not having a state at all?

	False
	
The HTTP method that can be used to create a resource is ?

	POST
	
REST Provides a Standard Interface to perform CRUD operations
	
	True
	
The HTTP method that can be used to create a resource is ?

	post
	
What in the object model become the resources?

	Nouns

It is a good practice to use the HTTP POST method for a update operation.

	False
	
How can we share a REST web service consumer the contract/contents of the XML request and response messages?

	Using XML Schema

Which part of JAX-RS should the developers focus on?

	API

The JAX-RS annotation that can be used to bind a java method to a HTTP DELETE method is ?

	@DELETE
	
The annotation that can be used to bind a URI to a java method is ?

	@Path
	
Which annotation can be used to bind a HTTP Post method to a Java Method?
	
	POST
	
The JAX-RS annotation that can be used to map a URI is ?

	@Path
	
Which JAX-RS class can be used to return back errors?

	Response
	
Which JAX-RS exception in the can be thrown with any error status code?

	WebApplicationException
	
Which JAX-RS exception should be thrown when the client uses a mal-formed URL?
	
	BadRequestException

What can be used to handle Business Exceptions in a generic fashion?

	Exception Mappers
	
Which annotation should be used to mark the ExceptionMapper classes to register them with the JAX-RS runtime?

	Provider
	
JAX-RS API supports both Asynchronous Providers and Clients.
	
	True

While consuming a Asynchronous Service the client has to wait for the response to come back before taking up some other task.

	False
	
Which annotation is used to mark the AsyncResponse Object for Async Support?

	
	@Suspended

Which method on the AsyncResponse class can be used to communicate response or errors?

	resume
	
Which method returns a Asyncinvoker that can then be used to make Async Calls?

	async

Which class from the java concurrency package is the key for handling asynchronous response?

	Future
	
Which interface should be implemented by a Async client callback?

	InvocationCallback
	

